Okay.
So in this lesson, we'll talk about mutations.
What is a mutation?
Well, we cannot modify the view store state directly.
In other words, a component can't just say, take this object and flip the is logic property to true.
We don't want to give components that much freedom because any component in the app can then do something
destructive.
For example, a component may misspell a property name or a component may accidentally add a new property,
delete a property.
What we want to do is limit the possible ways that we can change the store state to a predefined limited
set of operations.
And we call those mutations.
It sounds like a complex word, but the word mutate basically means to change.
So a mutation is just a method that changes the view store state in some way.
It's an instruction that we give to the store that tells it how to update.
And a component can only update these store state by calling a specific set or a specific mutation.
So you can imagine we have a mutation, a mutation, B mutation.
See, what we've done there is define three different ways that a component can modify the store state
and prohibited it from accidentally modifying the store state in a way that we don't want to.
All right.
So let me show you how this is going to work here.
In my configuration object for my store, I'm going to define a new property called mutations, and
I'm going to make this equal to a JavaScript object.
In this object, we define methods that are going to modify or update the state that we see above.
So this approach is analogous to the methods property in a given component.
Remember, a component may have a methods property.
Let me see if I can find it right here.
And this component has a method called log and user that modifies this components is logged in data
property.
It's the exact same analogous example in our store.
The difference is the store state is right here and mutations represents the methods that are going
to modify this state right here.
Okay, so right here I'm going to define a mutation, just a plane method and a common convention.
You might see in the view hex community is to give your mutations names that are all uppercase.
It sort of represents the constant nature of this operation.
Many times in JavaScript you write things that are constant or fixed in uppercase letters, and that
sort of indicates that this is constant, that these are the only ways that you can actually modify
the store state.
There's no other way that you should reach into the state besides through these mutations.
It's just a common convention that we follow.
It's not a technical requirement.
So here I'm going to create a mutation called log in user, and every single mutation that you define
is going to receive the state, the store state as the first argument.
So here I'm going to provide state and what state represents is this object.
Right here is the complete store.
State is the complete state that we chose to define above.
And then of course in the method body, we can modify that store state in any way that we want, right?
So if state represents this object and we want to log the user in, we of course want to take our state
object, we want to access the IS logged in property that we have above and it exists because we defined
it here.
And then what we want to do, of course, is to overwrite this value to be true.
All right.
A couple of things to note here, because the syntax may be a little bit weird to people or you may
be coming from another framework.
There's a lot of things that I'd like to add here.
First up, a mutation must be synchronous, so there can be no asynchronous code in here that runs for
a certain amount of time.
So this is not the place where you can do things like make an API call or read a file from the file
system.
Any asynchronous operation, anything that takes some amount of time, you have to do it in a separate
place in the View Store, which we'll talk about later in this section.
All mutations must be synchronous.
They must be automatic JavaScript code that basically executes instantaneously, such as basic property
assignments like this.
If you're coming from the React or Redux ecosystem, you may be used to a functional pattern where you
have to always return a new store state and rather than modify existing properties like we're doing
here.
This approach is actually totally valid and encouraged by view.
There's nothing wrong in the view design principles with modifying your existing state like so.
Okay.
Just as a heads up if you're coming from React Redux.
So again, state represents this object right here and we're modifying the is logged in property right
here.
Okay.
Generally speaking, it's also a good practice to not create any new properties in your mutations.
Right.
So we don't want to ever say like states bought new property here.
We never really want to do that.
We always should have the default starting state of the store right here.
And if you don't have an initial value to provide for a property, just provide undefined or null or
the empty equivalent of something.
Right?
If something is supposed to be an array, then give it an empty array.
If something is supposed to be an object and give it an empty object.
If something is supposed to be a string, give it an empty string.
We never really want to create or delete properties.
We always want to start off with a base state and then modify its values through mutation.
All right.
Before we conclude this lesson, there's another thing that I'd like to add here, and it's called strict
mode.
That's another setting that we can configure in our store.
So below mutations here, I'm going to add a key called strict.
And strict has to be set to a Boolean value, either true or false.
So if we enable strict mode by providing a value of true view is going to be a lot more strict when
it comes to making sure that we don't have any place where we are accidentally modifying the store state
outside of a mutation.
That was a really long blurb of text.
Let me reiterate what I mean to talk about the practices we discussed earlier in this lesson.
A mutation is the only place and the only way that we are allowed to modify a view store.
That is the design principle behind this library.
So what's strict is going to do when set to true is it's going to be much more picky if you ever try
to modify states elsewhere outside of a mutation.
For example, if a component tries to reach into the state and modify it manually and strict mode is
set to true, your console will give you a big red warning that says, No, this is not good.
I'm not happy about this.
So typically what you want to do is you want to enable strict mode in development mode, but never actually
enable it in production mode.
And the reason is because strict mode actually takes up a lot of memory and it could slow down the speed
of your app.
However, in development mode, it's pretty helpful because it can catch errors.
It can show you if you're not using view the way it's supposed to be used, if you've accidentally modified
the store state somewhere where you're not supposed to.
So here's what we're going to do to enable the setting, but only in development mode.
You may recall from an earlier section that we have this process global node object, and on it we have
an EMV object.
This is where we, for example, can receive our environment variables that we defined in our EMV file.
Well, there's also predefined environment variables on this EMV object that are not defined by us,
but are defined by node or defined by view.
So one of them is called Node EMV, and this is actually the name of the development mode in which we
are running.
To be more specific, the environment.
So we talked earlier about how view runs in three possible environments, development, test and production.
Right.
And this is going to be a string that represents that value.
So this is going to be one of three string values.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to say when the environment is not equal to the lowercase
string of production, that's when I want to enable stick node.
So if we are running in development mode as we are right now in the browser, this is going to evaluate
to true because the string of development is not equal to the string of production.
So this will value to true and we will enable strict mode when we're developing.
However, if we ever deploy this app to the web, well then the node environment will be set to production
and then strict as a result will be set to false because production not equal to production will be
false and thus strict will be set to that.
And this is something that you basically set once, and you never have to worry about it.
This is just, again, a more robust way to make sure that we're using View X as it's supposed to be
used, which is ensuring that only mutations are modifying our store state right here.
All right.
So to sum up everything we've learned, we've defined our initial.
Or state.
This is like the data section of a component.
We've defined ways to modify that store state using mutations, and we've told you to check that we're
doing it the way we're supposed to.
And now, of course, the next question you may have is, how do I actually run one of these mutations?
How do I use this method?
How do I tell you to accept this log in user method and actually flip the value of the is logged in
property?
We're going to see how to do that in the very next lesson.